Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has addressed the US Congress
saying America and Israel must stand
together if they're to defeat what he
called the forces of barbarism he's
looking to boost support for the war
against Hamas in Gaza and has vowed to
in his words finish the job but
thousands of demonstrators gathered
outside the capital to protest about the
war and dozens of democratic members of
Congress refused to attend his speech an
American flag was burnt and statues
outside Union Station were defaced from
Washington Tom baitman
reports a short walk back into the
American Limelight after months of fraud
ties between the US leadership and the
Israeli Prime Minister here among
friends many Republicans but some
notable absences from Joe Biden's
Democrats Benjamin Netanyahu started by
thanking the president he rightly called
Hamas sheer evil he dispatched two
aircraft carriers to the Middle East to
deter a wider War
and he came to Israel to stand with us
during our darkest hour a visit that
will never be
forgotten he quickly turned to the issue
of hostages still held by Hamas with
families and one of those freed watching
trying to point to his accomplishments
Israel has already brought home 135 of
these hostages including seven who were
freed and during rescue operations
another outside the protesters came in
their thousands headed to the heart of
US democracy or as close as they could
get anger has raged over the huge
numbers of civilians killed in Gaza it's
shameful that he's been invited to speak
before Congress um it's shameful what
our government has been allowing to
happen and aiding and
funding you can see how the pressure has
been building on Benjamin Netanyahu and
then there are his critics at home some
of whom have accused him of not gripping
a ceasefire deal hard enough because of
his own political problems and so
arriving here at the US capital for him
is the big prize as he tries to Face Off
his
opponents the Israeli leader castigated
the demonstrated but there was more to
come inside the
chamber a silent protest from Rashida
Talib the First Palestinian American
woman to serve here roughly half the
elected Democrats in Congress are
believed to have stayed away with the
vice president carala Harris also absent
her office said due to a schedule clash
and Mr Netanyahu addressed the move by
the prosecutor of the international
criminal court who is seeking an arrest
warrant against him the ICC is trying to
Shackle Israel's hands and prevent us
from defending
ourselves staning prays in Congress that
there may be less behind closed doors
tomorrow as Mr Netanyahu meets President
Biden an alliance backed by arms but
blighted by the fought politics between
its leaders Tom bitman BBC News
Washington